Mercian Stick Bends
Mercian sticks are made in our own unique moulds, only used by us, having been commissioned by us and designed for us, they are not a replication of other ‘free market’ moulds and reflect our thoughts on stick bows, head shapes and handle dimensions.
Ultimate Bend V2 2025
The Mercian Ultimate V2 Bend is new for 2025 – it features the same bend as the legacy Ultimate bend – “is the most aggressive low bow that we have ever made, with the bend of the stick effectively cupping the ball. The maximum bend at this lowest legal point enhances drag ﬂicking and aerial skills with the balance point of the stick adjusted to also favour 3D dribbling skills” – it also now has a thinner toe, this aids getting the toe of the stick under the ball on the reverse side to aid 3D skills. In addition to this it also has a sculpted head, shaping the rear surface of the head from a curve to a flat, angled plane removes some of the bulk and assists getting the head of the stick under the ball, opening the face and aiding overhead passes and generally lifting the ball.
Xtreme Bend 2025
The Mercian Extreme bend features several of the popular concepts seen in our other bends in addition to some new elements. The toe of the stick has been thinned down both on the face and the back of the head to aid getting the ball into the air for 3D skill execution. The backhand zone has been flattened to aid passing and shooting accuracy. The actual bend of the stick (face) is the same as the Ultimate – 24.5mm at a maximum bend point of 200mm from the head. The extreme bend also has a 2mm concave shaft, with the concave situated above, not including, the stick face, so enhancing flicking and ‘sling-shot’ slapping skills but without compromising the ball / face impact. A 4-degree face twist to aid ball handling, dribbling and control on the reverse side. A thinned handle so that with the EVA under grip on the CKF90 the grip dimensions feel ‘normal’. This bend is available on the CKF55 and CKF85 and CF95 (2024/25 models).
Pro Bend 2025
The Mercian Pro Bend incorporates a near maximum 23.5mm bow positioned just below the mid-point of the shaft, approximately 230mm from the bottom of the stick. The shaft has then been shaped to give a thinner proﬁle under the right hand and a balance point that favours the head end of the stick. This gives a combination of great stick turn-over due to the shape but enhanced hitting power because of the balance point and sweet spot, the hitting power is also enhanced because the head is 1.5mm thicker than the Ultimate bend.
Ultimate Bend
The Mercian Ultimate Bend is the most aggressive low bow that we have ever made, with the bend of the stick effectively cupping the ball. The maximum bend at this lowest legal point enhances drag ﬂicking and aerial skills with the balance point of the stick adjusted to also favour 3D dribbling skills. Whilst the shaft weighting aid sticks head speed it still provides power and balance for the slapping and pushing associated with elite level skill execution.
DSH Bend 2025
The concave face shape ‘cups’ and cushions the ball to help with close control, 3D skill execution and lifted passes but is obviously within the FIH 4mm deviation guidelines. To create the concave face the head is 2mm thicker than the Ultimate bend and therefore also offers a head weighted bias which aids hitting and slapping power. It is important to note that this bend is also a low bow and definitely not a mid bow stick
MID Bend
The Mercian mid-bow has a 22mm bend situated 300mm up the shaft. A majority of players are still looking for a low or extreme low bow stick that helps with drag flicking, aerials or 3D skill execution. However, an increasing number are looking for a straighter stick, this Mid-bend aligns the hands more with the stick face and so it assists accuracy with hitting and slapping. With some people considering that the primary skills for defensive players are distribution using hitting and slapping, this stick is perfectly suited for that purpose.
